# Tableau-Sales-Analysis

## Business Scenario 
Adventure Works Cycles (AWC) is an international manufacturer and seller of bicycles and accessories. The company’s headquarters is located in Bothell, Washington, USA and have 3 main regional sales offices in America, European and the Pacific. AWC would like to expand their sales to their best customers, extending its product availability through an external website, while maintaining the lower production costs. AWC sales mainly come from two sales channels, such as resellers and internet/online. There are three major product categories for AWC online sales namely bikes, clothing and accessories & components. The core income for AWC is obtained by selling three main brands of bikes such as mountain bikes, road bikes and touring bikes bicycles. An additional income is generated by selling cycling accessories such as bottles, caps, gloves, jerseys, and components namely bike racks, brake chains, handlebars etc.

## Project Background
The trend toward digital business is overwhelming due to the paradigm shift in the business world. However, Adventure Works Cycles (AWC) was comparatively behind the line as they only started their online business in the year 2010. AWC also claimed that internet sales have not been achieving the set target, thus the sales performance showed a declining trend. This resulted in decreased sales and missed revenue targets over the years. The sales and marketing team of AWC worked to improve the marketing alignments and increase online sales by discovering business insights via analysing the data for better decision making. 

## Tasks
- To examine the prevailing situation of the internet sales of AWC via descriptive analytics methods.
- To draft valid recommendations to AWC by evaluating the customer buying behaviour to improve their future internet sales.

## Analysis
- bikes represent majority of sales in most country regions, especially in the Pacific region, where they account for half or more sales. 
- Their top product is actually their AWC Logo Cap followed by their long sleeve logo jersey, which belongs in the clothing category. 
- Components are not included in online sales, which may be contributing to their low online sales since online components sales may be lost.
- North American region holds the highest profit.
- US, which is part of the North American region, has about 50% of the in-store sales.
- Although in-store sales hold a larger market share than online sales, they both have a decreasing trend over time, as the decreasing median also indicates. 
- Despite a large number of online orders, AWC maintained 0 overdue orders, which allowed us to rule out slow delivery as a factor. 
- Road bikes represent 40% of sales, while the 3 bikes in total represent 86% of sales in the product subcategory.
- Price is the main reason for their sales, followed by promotion, manufacturing, and so on.
- Discounts and amounts spent are positively correlated. However, no discounts are provided online.

## Recommendations
- As a first consideration, AWC should consider different sales strategies and recommendations to customers in different regions, as different regions tend to have high sales of different product categories. 
- Next, it may make sense to add the Components category to online sales. AWC may be losing out a great deal by removing the Components category online as it holds the second-highest sales category position. 
- Then let's promote online sales to in-store customers. It has previously been shown that many customers still shop in physical stores, especially in the United States. In order to move into a digital business, it is best to start with the customers closest to you, such as the in-store customers. 
- As we have come this far, let's now focus on online promotion. It was noted that promotion ranks second among sales reasons, yet it is not available online. Hence, why not add this the online platform to generate more sales. 
- Finally, there is a need to promote email subscriptions. Only 40% of customers have subscribed to email notifications, and with all that is done, the only thing left is for customers to be informed of promotions so they will actively purchase products. 
